feat: Placement support (#13)
hamlet-io/architectural-decision-log: adr/0007-placement-support.md

- the generation of account templates uses different concepts to those of product templates
- the maintenance of critical configuration information such as environment to account mappings external to the cmdb.

The introduction of dynamic cmdb loading and the input pipeline processor with full cmdb qualification presents an opportunity to address these long standing issues and complete the implementation of placement support. The question is how.

## Decision Drivers <!-- optional -->

* reuse existing concepts and ways of doing things as much as possible
* given a cmdb, no other configuration information should be necessary to deploy a product

## Considered Options

This ADR extends on the decision made in [ADR-0002](../0002-layer-deployments.md) - Layer Level Deployments and provides more design detail, primarily by the enrichment of link semantics.

## Decision Outcome

Chosen option: "Extend link semantics", because it addresses the decision drivers best (see below) and aligns with the decision previously made.

### Positive Consequences <!-- optional -->

* reduced configuration complexity - everything in one place
* better validation of configurations

> * links have proven very flexible so expect the porposed changes to be repurposed for other things in the future

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* links have proven very flexible so expect the proposed changes to be re-purposed for other things in the future
```

* straightforward transition process once infrastructure in place

### Negative Consequences <!-- optional -->

* Expansion of semantics of existing concepts may be harder to document, understand and explain than dedicated new concepts

## Design Detail

### New Link Semantics

> Currently links are used extensively in product solutions. A link goes from an occurrence in one solution to an occurrence in another (possibly same) solution. This option builds on existing link processing as follows;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently links are used extensively in product solutions. A link goes from an occurrence to another within a solution. This option builds on existing link processing as follows;
```

I think that sentence is about the current state?

1. A link targets an occurrence within a solution.
1. A link uses attributes to identify a solution and the specific occurrence within that solution.
1. Occurrences within a solution are identified by a standard set of link attributes
     - `Tier`
     - `Component`
     - `Subcomponent`
     - `Instance`
     - `Version`

   Thus these attributes must be present on a link, or be inherited from the occurrence on which the link is configured.
1. The `Subcomponent` attribute replaces use of type specific attributes such as `Port`.
1. An optional `Type` attribute is added to ensure links to same named subcomponents can be resolved. Its value is the component type of the link target.
1. Each solution has a scope and an identifier within the scope.

> 1. A link must have a `Scope` attribute representing the target-solution's scope. The default, representing existing usage, is the `segment` scope.

Reviewer: The default would actually be self rather than segment right? 
A link configured to be scope segment could be another segment 

So I think here the default would a link within my solution

Author: I've updated the text to reflect latest thinking on `districts`. Suggest a reread/review.

> 1. The scope value determines what other ordered attributes of the link are used to identify the specific solution required.

Reviewer: attributes of the link or is the scope to do with an ordered set of layers?

Author: I've updated the text to reflect latest thinking on `districts`. Suggest a reread/review.

1. The attributes to identify the particular solution must either be present on the link, or inherited from the occurrence on which
the link is configured.

> 1. For the `segment` scope, the ordered attributes used to identify a specific solution are `Tenant`, `Product`, `Environment` and `Segment`.

Reviewer: If we include Tenant here, we might have to consider how names are formed? at the moment tenant isn't included in naming. 

I can see how Tenant fits though. I.e. an organisation that owns the product

Author: I've updated the text to reflect latest thinking on `districts`. Suggest a reread/review.

### Negative Consequences <!-- optional -->

* Expansion of semantics of existing concepts may be harder to document, understand and explain than dedicated new concepts

## Design Detail

### New Link Semantics

Currently links are used extensively in product solutions. A link goes from an occurrence in one solution to an occurrence in another (possibly same) solution. This option builds on existing link processing as follows;

1. A link targets an occurrence within a solution.
1. A link uses attributes to identify a solution and the specific occurrence within that solution.
1. Occurrences within a solution are identified by a standard set of link attributes
     - `Tier`
     - `Component`
     - `Subcomponent`
     - `Instance`
     - `Version`

   Thus these attributes must be present on a link, or be inherited from the occurrence on which the link is configured.
1. The `Subcomponent` attribute replaces use of type specific attributes such as `Port`.
1. An optional `Type` attribute is added to ensure links to same named subcomponents can be resolved. Its value is the component type of the link target.
1. Each solution has a scope and an identifier within the scope.

> 1. A link must have a `Scope` attribute representing the solution scope. The default, representing existing usage, is the `segment` scope.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. A link must have a `Scope` attribute representing the target-solution's scope. The default, representing existing usage, is the `segment` scope.
```

1. The scope value determines what other ordered attributes of the link are used to identify the specific solution required.
1. The attributes to identify the particular solution must either be present on the link, or inherited from the occurrence on which
the link is configured.
1. For the `segment` scope, the ordered attributes used to identify a specific solution are `Tenant`, `Product`, `Environment` and `Segment`.
1. Link indirection is supported by an optional `LinkRef` attribute within a link object. If present, no other link attributes should be explicitly provided.
1. The value of a LinkRef attribute is used as the attribute name in a `LinkRefs` configuration object, with the attribute value
being the desired link definition.
1. LinkRef attributes provide a convenient mechanism to centralise qualification of links shared across multiple components, as is commonly the case with placements.

### New Components

> This option also introduces two new components - `Subscription` and `HostingPlatform`.

Reviewer 2: If a `Subscription` is tied to a `HostingPlatform`, would `HostingSubscription` or `PlatformSubscription` provide an easily identified connection between the two?

Author: A subscription is tied to its provider. It is more generic than hosting. It could, for instance, represent an org in github.

This I think `Subscription` is correct. IT might end up with an "Engine" parameter if a provider offers more than one type of subscription but in general I think its likely to be 1:1 with the provider.

A `Subscription` component represents provider specific mechanism for purchasing hosting capability, such as an `account` with AWS or a `subscription` with Azure.

Subscription components will typically be used with a `tenant` scoped solution. Instances of a tenant scoped solution will be identified by the `Tenant` link attribute.

> A `HostingPlatform` component represents the place within a subscription where resources can physically be hosted. An example for AWS or Azure would be a region within a `Subscription`.

Reviewer 2: I think this could use some clarification here. I understand the concept of `HostingPlatform` broadly, but how do `HostingPlatform`-components differentiate from `Region`?

Does a `HostingPlatform` set a limitation - no component can deploy outside of these locations? 

Or does it represent the capability to deploy to that location? 

Or that realised component instances already exist there?

Author: The capability to deploy to that location. I'll add some extra text. I think the idea may evolve as we implement it.
